

-S option, see also the man-page.

Alternatively, as mentioned in the below comment, if you already opened the file, you can toggle the mode by typing -S and then enter.



    / (search forward)
    ? (search backwards)
    F (enable tail -f like behvaior, Ctrl-C to break out of it)
    v (open file in $EDITOR for editing, defaults to vi/vim)


    u - up half page
    d - down half page
    k - scroll single line up
    j - scroll single line down
    -i - case insensitive searching unless pattern contains capitals (as clo or in less)
    / /pattern/ - search (used with n)
    -p /pattern/ open file at /pattern/ (as clo)
    & /pattern/ show lines containing /pattern/ (like grep)



    ^f - page down
    ^b - page up
    G - go to the end of buffer
    gg - go to the beginning of the buffer

also - most of them are just vim-like functions for navigation.

    n - continue searching for your pattern in the same direction
    N - continue searching for your pattern in the opposite direction

    -N - show line numbers
    -I - ignore case in your search pattern (useful when looking for errors that might be spelled as 'ERROR|Error|error')
    -G - turn off highlighting


    -J add status column on the left, marks columns with search hits.
    -M more verbose status line.
    -Q no bells.
    -R don't convert raw input, lets escape sequences be interpreted.
    -S disable line wrapping.
    -i case insensitive searching.

    CTRL+F – forward one window
    CTRL+B – backward one window
    CTRL+D – forward half window
    CTRL+U – backward half window

    j – navigate forward by one line
    k – navigate backward by one line

    G – go to the end of file
    g – go to the start of file
    q or ZZ – exit the less pager

http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2010/02/unix-less-command-10-tips-for-effective-navigation/
